# Automated-Sensor-Fusion-for-Failure-Detection-in-Power-Semiconductor
Master thesis

## 📄 Abstract

The complexity, heterogeneity and multimodal nature of the data involved make failure analysis of power semiconductor devices extremely difficult. Traditional failure analysis methods frequently depend on the utilization of single-modal data, which can result in suboptimal detection accuracy and required extensive manual pre-processing. In order to improve failure classification in Gallium Nitride (GaN) High Electron Mobility Transistors (HEMT), this thesis explores the application of automated sensor fusion approaches, through integration of time-domain reflection (TDR) signals and S-parameter data.

The aim of this thesis is to create an AI-based approach for failure classification in Transistor. In addition, to implement a method to automate data synchronization, normalization, and fusion procedures. By using a Transformer model for failure classification, the algorithm improves the accuracy for failure classification when examined with Uni-modal (TDR data) and Multi-modal (synchronized s-parameter and TDR data). A functionality is created with input of raw s-parameter and TDR data files, creates a dataset which can be directly used for the classification task. This functionality creates a unified multimodal data, and it is normalized for the transformer model. Furthermore, the manual efforts in data preprocessing is reduced by implementing automated sensor data fusion. The implemented Transformer model shows an improvement of 6.67% with synchronized data over TDR data and the model accuracy improves by 11.67% with the use of transfer learning.
